communications_protocol.asciidoc, before:

[[communications_protocol]]
== The communication protocol
After you discovered the overview of how the lightning network protocol worked in the last chapter we now want to present a few more details about the actual communication that takes place between the nodes to fulfill the most important tasks like opening a channel, forwarding a payment and closing the channel.
All communication takes place over a secure, encrypted and authenticated connection.

[NOTE]
====
While the specification of how to set up such a connection is part of the lightning network protocol and can be read upon in BOLT08 we will omit this in the book.
The reason is that BOLT08 mainly follows the handshake patterns from the noise protocol framework which is a standard template system for secure cryptographic handshakes.
This protocol framework is also used by Whatsapp and Wireguard and is very well documented.
If you want to learn more we suggest you check out http://www.noiseprotocol.org/
====

=== Lightning Messages

Each Lightning Message contains 2 bytes indicating the *type* of message, and a variable-length *payload*.
A *payload* needs to be interpreted according the *type*.

A Lightning Message falls into one of the following groups:

[cols="3,3,10",options="header"]
|=======
| Group           | Type        | Description
| Setup & Control | 0~31        | Messages related to connection setup, control, supported features, and error reporting
| Channel         | 32~127      | Messages related to setup and close channels
| Commitment      | 128~255     | Messages related to updating the current commitment transaction
| Routing         | 256~511     | Messages related to node and channel announcements, or active route explorations
| Custom          | 32768~65535 | Experimental or custom messages
|=======

Lightning Messages follows two forethoughtful rules: "it's OK to be odd" rule and "ignore additional data" rule. Both of them allow for future extension of Lightning Messages.

=== "It's OK to be odd" rule

Lightning Message type follows the _it's ok to be odd_ rule. A node is allowed to send a message of an _odd_-numbered type, but not _even_-numbered type without prior negotiation. Once a node receives an _oddly_-but-unknown-typed message, it should ignore it. However, if it receives an _evenly_-but-unknown-typed message, it is expected to fail the channels.

=== "Ignore additional data" rule


=== Opening a Payment channel

=== forwarding, making and receiving a payment

=== closing the channel

Commit message:

add "ignore additional data" rule

communications_protocol.asciidoc, after:

[[communications_protocol]]
== The communication protocol
After you discovered the overview of how the lightning network protocol worked in the last chapter we now want to present a few more details about the actual communication that takes place between the nodes to fulfill the most important tasks like opening a channel, forwarding a payment and closing the channel.
All communication takes place over a secure, encrypted and authenticated connection.

[NOTE]
====
While the specification of how to set up such a connection is part of the lightning network protocol and can be read upon in BOLT08 we will omit this in the book.
The reason is that BOLT08 mainly follows the handshake patterns from the noise protocol framework which is a standard template system for secure cryptographic handshakes.
This protocol framework is also used by Whatsapp and Wireguard and is very well documented.
If you want to learn more we suggest you check out http://www.noiseprotocol.org/
====

=== Lightning Messages

Each Lightning Message contains 2 bytes indicating the *type* of message, and a variable-length *payload*.
A *payload* needs to be interpreted according the *type*.

A Lightning Message falls into one of the following groups:

[cols="3,3,10",options="header"]
|=======
| Group           | Type        | Description
| Setup & Control | 0~31        | Messages related to connection setup, control, supported features, and error reporting
| Channel         | 32~127      | Messages related to setup and close channels
| Commitment      | 128~255     | Messages related to updating the current commitment transaction
| Routing         | 256~511     | Messages related to node and channel announcements, or active route explorations
| Custom          | 32768~65535 | Experimental or custom messages
|=======

Lightning Messages follows two forethoughtful rules: "it's OK to be odd" rule and "ignore additional data" rule. Both of them allow for future extension of Lightning Messages.

=== "It's OK to be odd" rule

Lightning Message type follows the _it's ok to be odd_ rule. A node is allowed to send a message of an _odd_-numbered type, but not _even_-numbered type without prior negotiation. Once a node receives an _oddly_-but-unknown-typed message, it should ignore it. However, if it receives an _evenly_-but-unknown-typed message, it is expected to fail the channels.

=== "Ignore additional data" rule

The length of a Lightning Message is a 2-byte unsigned int, so the maximum message size is 65535 bytes.

If a node receives a message with additional data longer than it expects for the corresponding type, the exceeding part will be discarded. On the contrary, if a node receives a message shorter than it expects, it fails the channels.

=== Opening a Payment channel

=== forwarding, making and receiving a payment

=== closing the channel
