README.md, before:

# Mastering the Lightning Network

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/lnbook/lnbook.svg?branch=develop)](https://travis-ci.com/lnbook/lnbook)

![Mastering Lightning Cover](images/cover_thumb.png)

Mastering the Lightning Network is an O'Reilly Media book, due for publication in Q4'2020, and announced on August 28th by authors Andreas M. Antonopoulos ([@aantonop](https://twitter.com/aantonop)), Olaoluwa Osuntokun ([@roasbeef](https://twitter.com/roasbeef)), Rene Pickhardt ([@renepickhardt](https://twitter.com/renepickhardt)).

The book describes the Lightning Network (LN), a Peer-to-Peer protocol running on top of Bitcoin and other blockchains, which provides near-instant, secure, micro-payments.

The book is suitable for technical readers with an understanding of the fundamentals of Bitcoin and other open blockchains.

## Contributing

The authors welcome contributions to this book! Read the [Guide to Contributing](CONTRIBUTING.md)

## Source and license

Mastering the Lightning Network is released under the Creative Commons CC-BY-NC-ND license, which allows sharing the source code for personal use only. You may read this book for free. You may not create derivatives (such as PDF copies), or distribute the book commercially. The full terms of the license can be found here:

[![Creative Commons License](https://i.creativecommons.org/l/by-nc-nd/4.0/88x31.png)](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/)

<span xmlns:dct="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" property="dct:title">Mastering the Lightning Network</span> by <a xmlns:cc="http://creativecommons.org/ns#" href="https://lnbook.info/" property="cc:attributionName" rel="cc:attributionURL">Andreas M. Antonopoulos, Olaoluwa Osuntokun, Rene Pickhardt</a> is licensed under a <a rel="license" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/">Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 International License</a>.

It is expected that the book will be released under a more permissive CC-BY-SA license within a year of publication.

Commit message:

Add simple build instructions for the book to README.md

README.md, after:

# Mastering the Lightning Network

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/lnbook/lnbook.svg?branch=develop)](https://travis-ci.com/lnbook/lnbook)

![Mastering Lightning Cover](images/cover_thumb.png)

Mastering the Lightning Network is an O'Reilly Media book, due for publication in Q4'2020, and announced on August 28th by authors Andreas M. Antonopoulos ([@aantonop](https://twitter.com/aantonop)), Olaoluwa Osuntokun ([@roasbeef](https://twitter.com/roasbeef)), Rene Pickhardt ([@renepickhardt](https://twitter.com/renepickhardt)).

The book describes the Lightning Network (LN), a Peer-to-Peer protocol running on top of Bitcoin and other blockchains, which provides near-instant, secure, micro-payments.

The book is suitable for technical readers with an understanding of the fundamentals of Bitcoin and other open blockchains.

## Contributing

The authors welcome contributions to this book! Read the [Guide to Contributing](CONTRIBUTING.md)

## Building

This book is written using the open source asciidoctor mark up language.
To build the book locally you can install asciidoctor package following the steps found at

    https://asciidoctor.org/


On a command line you can type

```    asciidoctor *.asciidoc -D output```

and copy the image files in with

```    cp images/ output/```

The generated files will now be found in the 'output' folder and can be opened in a browser.

Please note, it is part of the license agreement that you do not make or share a generated version beyond your own personal use for previewing changes.


## Source and license

Mastering the Lightning Network is released under the Creative Commons CC-BY-NC-ND license, which allows sharing the source code for personal use only. You may read this book for free. You may not create derivatives (such as PDF copies), or distribute the book commercially. The full terms of the license can be found here:

[![Creative Commons License](https://i.creativecommons.org/l/by-nc-nd/4.0/88x31.png)](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/)

<span xmlns:dct="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" property="dct:title">Mastering the Lightning Network</span> by <a xmlns:cc="http://creativecommons.org/ns#" href="https://lnbook.info/" property="cc:attributionName" rel="cc:attributionURL">Andreas M. Antonopoulos, Olaoluwa Osuntokun, Rene Pickhardt</a> is licensed under a <a rel="license" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/">Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 International License</a>.

It is expected that the book will be released under a more permissive CC-BY-SA license within a year of publication.
